Is there something you'd like to do right now
that you just haven't gotten around to achieving?
For example, maybe you have an unused guitar
collecting dust in the corner of your bedroom.
You keep telling yourself
that you'll learn to play one day,
but something always seems
to get in the way.
Ambition is common,
and it comes in all shapes and forms.
Unfortunately, turning ambition into reality
takes more than wishful thinking.
So how do we get past the hoping stage
and move into action?
The trick lies in setting goals.
When you set a goal,
you follow a process that requires two elements.
A goal and a system.
A goal is a desirable future event.
It's something clear
and specific you want to achieve.
For example, you might set a goal
to become a team manager
within the next three years.
A system is a process.
It's the method used to reach a goal
and it's often recurring.
For example, if you want to become a team manager,
your system might include
leading team projects,
training new employees,
and strengthening your skills.
Goal setting is about choosing a destination
and then deciding how to get there.
It's a way of routing your objectives in reality.
But like most things worth having,
it takes some sacrifice and work.
For example, continuing with our team manager example,
you'll need to avoid procrastination.
Resist short-term incentives
to take on easier projects
and accept more responsibility in the office.
As you consider what goals
you might set for yourself,
keep those inevitable sacrifices in mind.
A great goal is one that matters to you personally.
So contemplate the reward you want
and the price you're willing to pay for it.
If this all sounds like too much work,
don't be dissuaded.
Setting goals is important for several reasons.
For one, it builds motivation.
Set a goal
and you take your dreams
out of the idealistic hoping stage
and put them into action.
As you work toward your goal,
you'll see a motivational endpoint
that will make the sacrifices feel worthwhile.
Goals also work because they give you direction.
Instead of aimlessly going with the flow,
setting a goal helps you understand
what behaviors are worth your time
and which ones aren't.
Third goal setting promotes discipline and growth.
It helps you feel accountable to yourself.
And with a specific timeframe
to complete your goal,
you'll also have urgency
to keep pushing forward.
It's easy to fall back into old habits,
but a strong goal encourages you to keep going
and follow through with your plans.
Set a goal
and you'll find it easier
to stay locked in,
and resist tempting distractions.
Forth because setting involves
making precise time-bound commitments,
it also provides a measuring tool.
And with that,
you can track your progress
and take the element of surprise out of success.
Finally, by setting a goal
and tracking your results,
you'll maintain momentum.
You'll begin to see an increasingly larger gap
between where you started and where you are now.
And that will encourage you to stay on course
and push through those milestones.
If you have an aspiration,
don't just commit to getting around to it.
Instead, set a goal
and take that first critical step.
A defined goal will give you
the motivation to get started
and the long-term direction to stay on track.
Focus on what you want,
and the sacrifices it takes to get there.
And you'll turn your dreams into reality.